Update "Configuring Git for GitHub Desktop" article (#18146)
github/docs: content/desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/configuring-and-customizing-github-desktop/configuring-git-for-github-desktop.md

{% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %} will also show a warning prior to committing if the email address that has been set in your Git configuration does not match an email address associated with the {% data variables.product.product_name %} account you are currently logged in to.

{% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %} also allows you to change the default branch name that you would like to use when creating new repositories. By default, {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %} uses `main` as the default branch name in any new repositories you create.

{% tip %}

**Tip**: Anyone will be able to see the email address in your Git configuration if you make public commits. For more information, see "[Setting your commit email address](/articles/setting-your-commit-email-address/)."

{% endtip %}

> ## Configuring your commit details

Reviewer: I think we can be a bit more clear about what this setting does.

```suggestion
## Configuring your global author information
```

> 

Reviewer: Let's add a sentence before the procedure that clarifies that this will update your global Git configuration and therefore be the default name and email for all local repositories.

{% data reusables.desktop.name-field-git-config %}
  ![The name field of the Git configuration](/assets/images/help/desktop/mac-name-git-config.png)
{% data reusables.desktop.select-email-git-config %}
  ![Select email address in Git configuration field](/assets/images/help/desktop/mac-email-git-config.png)
{% data reusables.desktop.click-save-git-config %}
  ![Save button in Git configuration field](/assets/images/help/desktop/mac-save-git-config.png)

{% endmac %}

{% windows %}

{% data reusables.desktop.windows-choose-options %}
8. In the Options window, click **Git**.
![The Git Pane in the Options menu](/assets/images/help/desktop/windows-select-git-pane.png)
{% data reusables.desktop.name-field-git-config %}
  ![The name field of the Git configuration](/assets/images/help/desktop/windows-name-git-config.png)
{% data reusables.desktop.select-email-git-config %}
  ![Select email address in Git configuration field](/assets/images/help/desktop/windows-email-git-config.png)
{% data reusables.desktop.click-save-git-config %}
  ![Save button in Git configuration field](/assets/images/help/desktop/windows-save-git-config.png)

{% endwindows %}

> ## Overriding the email address GitHub Desktop uses for a repository

Reviewer: You can also change your name here too, so let's be a bit more general and also more directly contrast with the name for the first section, to help folks differentiate between them.
```suggestion
## Configuring different author information for an individual repository
```

> In {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %} you can change the name and email address used for commits in a specific repository. This local Git configuration will override your global Git configuration settings in this one repository, but will not affect any other repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the name and email address used to author commits in a specific repository. This local Git configuration will override your global Git configuration settings for this one repository only.
```

{% mac %}

{% data reusables.desktop.mac-repository-settings-menu %}
{% data reusables.desktop.select-git-config %}
{% data reusables.desktop.use-local-git-config %}
{% data reusables.desktop.local-config-name %}
{% data reusables.desktop.local-config-email %}
{% data reusables.desktop.repository-settings-save %}

{% endmac %}

{% windows %}

{% data reusables.desktop.windows-repository-settings-menu %}
{% data reusables.desktop.select-git-config %}
{% data reusables.desktop.use-local-git-config %}
{% data reusables.desktop.local-config-name %}
{% data reusables.desktop.local-config-email %}
{% data reusables.desktop.repository-settings-save %}

{% endwindows %}

## Configuring your default branch for new repositories

> You can configure the default branch that will be used when creating a new repository in {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}. The default branch is the base branch for pull requests and code commits. For more information about the default branch, see "[About the default branch](/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-branches#about-the-default-branch)."

Reviewer: I think it's misleading to say the default branch is the base branch for all pull requests, since "base branch" has a PR-specific meaning (and can be any branch). Let's just let folks read the article if they don't already know what a default branch it.
```suggestion
You can configure the default branch that will be used when you create a new repository in {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}. For more information about the default branch, see "[About the default branch](/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-branches#about-the-default-branch)."
```

{% mac %}

{% data reusables.desktop.mac-select-desktop-menu %}
1. In the Preferences window, click **Git**.
  ![The Git Pane in the Preferences menu](/assets/images/help/desktop/mac-select-git-pane.png)

> 1. Under "Default branch name for new repositories", select the default branch name you would like to use, or select "Other..." to enter a custom name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under "Default branch name for new repositories", select the default branch name you would like to use, or, to enter a custom name, select "Other...".
```

---
title: Configuring Git for GitHub Desktop
shortTitle: Configuring Git
intro: 'You can manage Git configuration settings for your local repositories with {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}.'
redirect_from:
  - /desktop/getting-started-with-github-desktop/configuring-git-for-github-desktop
  - /desktop/installing-and-configuring-github-desktop/configuring-git-for-github-desktop
versions:
  fpt: '*'
---
## About Git configuration for {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}

> {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %} uses your existing global Git configuration settings by default, but provides the option to configure your global author information and the default branch that is used when creating a new repository.

Author: Desktop respects both the local repository `.git/config` and the global `.gitconfig`, and you can change either from within the app. I was struggling with how to word this, but I think your wording sounds clearer. 👍🏻
